NAME

    dcmgpdir

SYNOPSIS

    dcmgpdir [options] referenced-dicom-file ...

SUMMARY

The dcmgpdir utility creates a DICOMDIR file from the specified
referenced dicom files using the General Purpose CD-R Image
Interchange Profile (Supplement 19).

USAGE

usage: dcmgpdir [options] referenced-dicom-file ...
options are:
  output options
    +D<dicomdir-path>  generate specific DICOMDIR file (default: DICOMDIR
                       in current directory)
    +F<file-set-id>    use specific file set ID (default: DEMO CAR 97)
    +R[<desc-file>]    add a file set descriptor file ID (e.g. README)
                       (default: add nothing)
    +C<char-set>       add a specific character set for descriptor
                       (default: if descriptor file presend add "ISO_IR 100")
    +I                 invent DICOMDIR type 1 attributes if missing in
                       image file (default: exit with error)
    +m                 map to DICOM filenames [lowercase -> uppercase,
                       and remove trailing period] (default: expect
                       filenames to already be in DICOM format)
    -w                 do not write out dicomdir (default: do write)
    +A                 append to existing dicomdir (default: create new)
    +r                 recurse within filesystem directories
  group length encoding:
    -g                 write without group lengths (default)
    +g                 write with group lengths
  length encoding in sequences and items:
    +e                 write with explicit lengths (default)
    -e                 write with undefined lengths
  other test/debug options:
    -u    disable generation of new VRs (UN/UT/VS)
    +V    verbose mode
    +dn   set debug level to n (n=1..9)

BEHAVIOUR

All files specified on the command line (or discovered by recursivly
examining the contents of directories with the +r option) are first 
evaluated for their compatibility with the General Purpose CD-R Image 
Interchange Profile (Supplement 19).  Only appropriate files encoded
using the Explicit VR Little Endian Uncompressed Transfer Syntax will
be accepted.  File having invalid filenames will be rejected (the rules
can be relaxed via the +m option).  Files missing required attributes
will be rejected (the +I option can relax this behaviour).

A DICOMDIR file will only be constructed if all files have passed 
initial tests.  

ENVIRONMENT

The dcmgpdir utility will attempt to load DICOM data dictionaries
specified in the DCMDICTPATH environment variable.  By default, if
the DCMDICTPATH environment variable is not set, the file
/usr/local/dicom/lib/dicom.dic will be loaded.  The default behaviour
should be preferred and the DCMDICTPATH environment variable only used
when alternative data dictionaries are required.  The DCMDICTPATH 
environment variable has the same format as the shell PATH variable in
that a colon (":") separates entries.  The data dictionary code will
attempt to load each file specified in the DCMDICTPATH environment 
variable.  It is an error if no data dictionary can be loaded.

AUTHOR

Andrew Hewett, Kuratorium OFFIS e.V., Oldenburg, Germany

